docs/topics/AbundanceCurve-class.md, before:

**AbundanceCurve-class** - *S4 class defining a clonal abundance curve*

Description
--------------------

`AbundanceCurve` defines clonal abundance values.


Usage
--------------------
```
"print"(x)
```
```
"plot"(x, y, ...)
```

Arguments
-------------------

x
:   AbundanceCurve object

y
:   ignored.

...
:   arguments to pass to [plotDiversityCurve](plotDiversityCurve.md).




Slots
-------------------



`abund`
:   data.frame with relative clonal abundance data and confidence intervals,
containing the following columns:

+ `GROUP`:  group identifier.
+ `CLONE`:  clone identifier.
+ `P`:      relative abundance of the clone.
+ `LOWER`:  lower confidence inverval bound.
+ `UPPER`:  upper confidence interval bound.
+ `RANK`:   the rank of the clone abundance.


`bootstrap`
:   data.frame of bootstrapped clonal distributions.

`group`
:   string specifying the name of the group column.

`groups`
:   vector specifying the names of unique groups in group column.

`clone`
:   string specifying the name of the clone column.

`nboot`
:   numeric specifying the number of bootstrap iterations to use.

`uniform`
:   TRUE/FALSE specifying whether or not bootstraps were calculated under rarefaction.

`max_n`
:   numeric specifying the number of species used for rarefaction if rarefaction is used.

`min_n`
:   numeric specifying the minumim tolerated number of species in calculation.

`ci`
:   confidence interval defining the upper and lower bounds 
(a value between 0 and 1).

Commit message:

1. Fixed abundance estimation algorithm with options for fast and robust methods in `bootstrapAbundance`. 2. Fixed broken `group=NULL` call in estimateAbundance. 3. Fixed broken `copy` argument in estimateAbundance. 4. Fixed behavior of `min_n` in estimateAbundance. 5. Fixed style and missing slots in `AbundanceCurve`. 6. Fixed broken `annotate` argument in `plotAbundanceCurve`, `plotDiversityCurve` and `plotDiversityTest`. 7. Removed `calcInferredDiversity` 8. Fixed empty print methods for `AbundanceCurve` and `DiversityCurve` objects. 9. Fixed plotDiversityTest dispatching. (Probably) 10. Fixed missing `tests` and `summary` slot documentation in `DiversityCurve`. 11. Removed `rarefyDiversity` and `testDiversity` in favor of adding input type check and ellipsis argument pass through from `alphaDiversity` and `betaDiversity` to `estimateAbundance`. 12. Restored deleted diversity test portion of vignette. 13. Misc cleanup in diversity code. 14. Updated news and rebuilt docs.

docs/topics/AbundanceCurve-class.md, after:

**AbundanceCurve-class** - *S4 class defining a clonal abundance curve*

Description
--------------------

`AbundanceCurve` defines clonal abundance values.


Usage
--------------------
```
"print"(x)
```
```
"plot"(x, y, ...)
```

Arguments
-------------------

x
:   AbundanceCurve object

y
:   ignored.

...
:   arguments to pass to [plotDiversityCurve](plotDiversityCurve.md).




Slots
-------------------



`abundance`
:   data.frame with relative clonal abundance data and confidence intervals,
containing the following columns:

+ `GROUP`:  group identifier.
+ `CLONE`:  clone identifier.
+ `P`:      relative abundance of the clone.
+ `LOWER`:  lower confidence inverval bound.
+ `UPPER`:  upper confidence interval bound.
+ `RANK`:   the rank of the clone abundance.


`bootstrap`
:   data.frame of bootstrapped clonal distributions.

`clone_by`
:   string specifying the name of the clone column.

`group_by`
:   string specifying the name of the grouping column.

`groups`
:   vector specifying the names of unique groups in group column.

`n`
:   numeric vector indication the number of sequences sampled in each group.

`nboot`
:   numeric specifying the number of bootstrap iterations to use.

`ci`
:   confidence interval defining the upper and lower bounds 
(a value between 0 and 1).
