docs/topics/DiversityCurve-class.md, before:

**DiversityCurve-class** - *S4 class defining a diversity curve*

Description
--------------------

`DiversityCurve` defines diversity (<code class = 'eq'>D</code>) scores over multiple diversity 
orders (<code class = 'eq'>Q</code>).


Usage
--------------------
```
"print"(x)
```
```
"plot"(x, y, ...)
```

Arguments
-------------------

x
:   DiversityCurve object

y
:   ignored.

...
:   arguments to pass to [plotDiversityCurve](plotDiversityCurve.md).




Slots
-------------------



`div`
:   data.frame defining the diversity curve with the following columns:

+ `GROUP`:    group label.
+ `Q`:        diversity order.
+ `D`:        mean diversity index over all bootstrap 
realizations.
+ `D_SD`:     standard deviation of the diversity index 
over all bootstrap realizations.
+ `D_LOWER`:  diversity lower confidence inverval bound.
+ `D_UPPER`:  diversity upper confidence interval bound.
+ `E`:        evenness index calculated as `D` 
divided by `D` at `Q=0`.
+ `E_LOWER`:  evenness lower confidence inverval bound.
+ `E_UPPER`:  eveness upper confidence interval bound.


`test`
:   list containing information concerning the result of testing diversity:

+ `test`:    data.frame of p-values from testing.
+ `summary`: data.frame of diversity value means and standard deviations for plotting.


`div_group`
:   string specifying the name of the group column in diversity calculation.

`div_groups`
:   vector specifying the names of unique groups in group column in diversity calculation.

`method`
:   string specifying the type of diversity calculated.

`q`
:   vector of diversity hill diversity indices used for computing diversity.

`ci`
:   confidence interval defining the upper and lower bounds 
(a value between 0 and 1).

Commit message:

1. Fixed abundance estimation algorithm with options for fast and robust methods in `bootstrapAbundance`. 2. Fixed broken `group=NULL` call in estimateAbundance. 3. Fixed broken `copy` argument in estimateAbundance. 4. Fixed behavior of `min_n` in estimateAbundance. 5. Fixed style and missing slots in `AbundanceCurve`. 6. Fixed broken `annotate` argument in `plotAbundanceCurve`, `plotDiversityCurve` and `plotDiversityTest`. 7. Removed `calcInferredDiversity` 8. Fixed empty print methods for `AbundanceCurve` and `DiversityCurve` objects. 9. Fixed plotDiversityTest dispatching. (Probably) 10. Fixed missing `tests` and `summary` slot documentation in `DiversityCurve`. 11. Removed `rarefyDiversity` and `testDiversity` in favor of adding input type check and ellipsis argument pass through from `alphaDiversity` and `betaDiversity` to `estimateAbundance`. 12. Restored deleted diversity test portion of vignette. 13. Misc cleanup in diversity code. 14. Updated news and rebuilt docs.

docs/topics/DiversityCurve-class.md, after:

**DiversityCurve-class** - *S4 class defining a diversity curve*

Description
--------------------

`DiversityCurve` defines diversity (<code class = 'eq'>D</code>) scores over multiple diversity 
orders (<code class = 'eq'>Q</code>).


Usage
--------------------
```
"print"(x)
```
```
"plot"(x, y, ...)
```
```
"plot"(x, y, ...)
```

Arguments
-------------------

x
:   DiversityCurve object

y
:   diversity order to plot (q).

...
:   arguments to pass to [plotDiversityCurve](plotDiversityCurve.md) or [plotDiversityTest](plotDiversityTest.md).




Slots
-------------------



`diversity`
:   data.frame defining the diversity curve with the following columns:

+ `GROUP`:    group label.
+ `Q`:        diversity order.
+ `D`:        mean diversity index over all bootstrap 
realizations.
+ `D_SD`:     standard deviation of the diversity index 
over all bootstrap realizations.
+ `D_LOWER`:  diversity lower confidence inverval bound.
+ `D_UPPER`:  diversity upper confidence interval bound.
+ `E`:        evenness index calculated as `D` 
divided by `D` at `Q=0`.
+ `E_LOWER`:  evenness lower confidence inverval bound.
+ `E_UPPER`:  eveness upper confidence interval bound.


`tests`
:   data.frame describing the significance test results with columns:

+ `TEST`:        string listing the two groups tested.
+ `DELTA_MEAN`:  mean of the <code class = 'eq'>D</code> bootstrap delta 
distribution for the test.
+ `DELTA_SD`:    standard deviation of the <code class = 'eq'>D</code> 
bootstrap delta distribution for the test.
+ `PVALUE`:      p-value for the test.


`summary`
:   data.frame containing summary statistics for the diversity index 
bootstrap distributions, at the given value of <code class = 'eq'>q</code>, with columns:

+ `GROUP`:   the name of the group.
+ `MEAN`:    mean of the <code class = 'eq'>D</code> bootstrap distribution.
+ `SD`:      standard deviation of the <code class = 'eq'>D</code> bootstrap 
distribution.


`group_by`
:   string specifying the name of the grouping column in diversity calculation.

`groups`
:   vector specifying the names of unique groups in group column in diversity calculation.

`method`
:   string specifying the type of diversity calculated.

`q`
:   vector of diversity hill diversity indices used for computing diversity.

`n`
:   numeric vector indication the number of sequences sampled in each group.

`ci`
:   confidence interval defining the upper and lower bounds 
(a value between 0 and 1).
